<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Astavalain</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="inlGitRepo.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <header>
            <h1><strong>Astavalain World Lore</strong></h1>
        </header>
        <h2><strong>Gods</strong></h2>
        <table style="color:white;">
            <thead>
                <tr>
                    <td><h3>Good and Lawful Good Deities</h3></td>
                    <td><h3>Unaligned Deities</h3></td>
                    <td><h3>Evil and Chaotic Evil Deities</h3></td>
                </tr>
            </thead>
            <tr>
                <td>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Avandra – Good Goddess of Change, Luck and Travel, Patron of Halflings.
                            She is revered by rogues, travelers, and merchants, and is the enemy of
                            Asmodeus, and Torog.</li>
                        <li>Bahamut – Lawful Good God of Justice, Protection and Nobility.
                            Patron of Dragonborn.</li>
                        <li>Moradin – Lawful Good God of Family, Community and Creation (as in
                            smithing). Patron of Dwarves</li>
                        <li>Pelor – Good God of Sun, Agriculture and Time. Seasonal God of
                            Summer.</li>
                    </ul>
                </td>
                <td>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Corellon – Unaligned God of Beauty, Art, Magic and the Fey. Seasonal God
                            of the Spring and Patron of Eladrin.</li>
                        <li>Erathis – Unaligned Goddess of Civilization, Inventions and Law.</li>
                        <li>Ioun – Unaligned Goddess of Knowledge, Skill and Prophecy. Ioun is an
                            ally of Corellon, Erathis and Pelor. She is the antithesis of Vecna, as
                            she urges her followers to share all knowledge that he would keep
                            hidden. Ioun is the second most popular deity among metallic dragons,
                            second only to Bahamut. Her name is derived from the Ioun stones.</li>
                        <li>Kord – Unaligned God of Storms, Battle and Strength.</li>
                        <li>Melora – Unaligned Goddess of Wilderness, Nature and the Sea</li>
                        <li>Raven Queen – Unaligned Goddess of Death, Fate and Doom. Seasonal
                            Goddess of Winter.</li>
                        <li>Sehanine – Unaligned Goddess of Illusion, Love and the Moon. Seasonal
                            God of Autumn and Patron of Elves.</li>
                    </ul>
                </td>
                <td>
                    <ul>
                        <li>Asmodeus – Evil God of Tyranny and Domination. Lord of Devils</li>
                        <li>Bane – Evil God of War and Conquest. Revered by Goblins</li>
                        <li>Gruumsh – Chaotic Evil God of Slaughter and Destruction. Patron of
                            Orcs</li>
                        <li>Lolth – Chaotic Evil Goddess of Shadow and Lies. Patron of Drow and
                            their inseparable companions, the spiders.</li>
                        <li>Tharizdun – The Chained God, also known as the Elder Elemental Eye,
                            creator of the Abyss. <em style="color:black;">(not one of the 18 gods, manifestation of entropy
                            in the world, not much is known, wild magic, etc.)</em></li>
                        <li>Tiamat – Evil Goddess of Greed and Envy. Patron of the Chromatic
                            Dragons.</li>
                        <li>Torog – Evil God of the Underdark. Patron of Jailors and Torturers</li>
                        <li>Vecna – Evil God of the Undead and Necromancy. Lord of Secrets</li>
                    </ul>
                </td>
            </tr>
        </table>
        <p>God list sourced from <a
                href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Dungeons_%26_Dragons_deities#" target="_blank"
                style="color:#81c964;">Dungeons and Dragons, 4th Edition</a></p>
        <p>
            Phrases highlighted in <span style="color:#c96481;">red</span> are conspiratorial knowledge in the world, and thus kept secret from all player characters until further notice.
        </p>
        <h2><strong>History of Divine Magic</strong></h2> 
        <p>The world of Astavalain “cradle divine” (actual translation is <span style="color:#c96481;">"catch divine"</span>) once
        existed without divine magic. The gods themselves were not known to the intelligent peoples
        of the surface world, and those magics that did exist were rudimentary and chaotic. Derived
        from nature and the elements, or brute force and long study. Only few had natural
        proclivities for the arcane, and these instances resulted more often than not in unintended
        calamity without a true understanding or control of one’s gifts. It was an accident of fate
        that first brought the divine touch of the gods to the knowledge of the surface dwellers. As
        is often the case, the dwarven ambition for plumbing the depths of mines in search of wonder
        and riches yielded more than anticipated. It was the Duergar of Yeknevolz, an ancient
        Underdark metropolis, who witnessed (and cowered before) the First God of Astavalain.</p>
            <h2><strong>Divine Nexus</strong></h2>
        <p><strong>The Divine Nexus</strong> is the central place of power for all the gods (good,
            neutral, and evil) where their influence and divine gifts/curses can interface with the
            material world and those who live in it. Located in <strong>Coravirtus</strong> where
            the <strong>Crown of the Gods</strong> (<span style="color:#c96481;">Divine Trammels</span>) known as the Corona, a series
            of 18 towers devoted to 18 gods, surrounds the city. <strong>The Corona Towers</strong>
            are organized thus, from north going clockwise: Pelor, Bahamut, Moradin, Ioun, Sehanine,
            Erathis, Bane, Vecna, Torog, Asmodeus, Tiamat, Gruumsh, Lolth, Corellon, Melora, Kord,
            The Raven Queen, Avandra. The binaries are: Pelor vs. Asmodeus, Bahamut vs. Tiamat,
            Moradin vs. Gruumsh, Ioun vs. Lolth, Sehanine vs. Corellon, Erathis vs. Melora, Bane vs.
            Kord, Vecna vs. The Raven Queen, Torog vs. Avandra.</p>
        <h2><strong>The Nervodekem Concilium</strong></h2> Ruling body of Council of ten clerics (<span style="color:#c96481;">wizards</span>) who lead the
        faithful of each of the nine binary divinities. Tenth, unaligned cleric
            (<strong>Cerebredai</strong>) is an intermediary who deals between all of the gods, this
        person has less power than the rest, but can call on any of the gods. Serves as an
        arbitrator and has final say in matters which are argued between different cleric factions. <ul>
            <li><strong>Cerebredai: Zoro’a Rethis</strong> (Elven woman)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Ethos</strong> (Pelor and Asmodeus): <strong>Helene
                    Gardín</strong> (Firbolg woman)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Integrity</strong> (Bahamut and Tiamat): <strong>Kazim
                    Rhúnai</strong> (Dwarven man)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Contrivance</strong> (Moradin and Gruumsh): <strong>Livia
                    Cresch</strong> (Human woman)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Wisdom</strong> (Ioun and Lolth): <strong>Arsinia
                    Ruso</strong> (Elven woman) <span style="color:#c96481;">defector from Concilium</span></li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of the Intangible</strong> (Sehanine and Corellon):
                    <strong>L’aris Florinae</strong> (Drow person)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Balance</strong> (Erathis and Melora): <strong>Caridoc
                    Grunmoore</strong> (Elven man)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Combat</strong> (Kord and Bane): <strong>Tiberius
                    Cresch</strong> (Human man)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Mortality</strong> (The Raven Queen and Vecna):
                    <strong>Constantina Bardane</strong> (Gold Dragonborn woman)</li>
            <li><strong>Arch Cleric of Volition</strong> (Avandra and Torog): <strong>Ranag
                    Hallvardsson</strong> (Goliath man)</li>
        </ul>
    </body>
</html>
